---
title: 'Access Control'
author: Abdullah Ahmed H
date: '16-11-2024'
image:
    url: '/portswigger_logo.webp'
    alt: 'Portswigger'
---

<p>
Access control are simply authorization controls. Some websites have broken access controls which can 
be taken advantage of.
</p>

Vertical Privilege escalation - A non-admin user being able to access admin priveleges.

Check robots.txt or /admin page. 

**Lab** : Checking robots.txt allowed me to access admin panel which had the option to delete user accounts

This is called unprotected functionality.

The website might try obfuscating the url by adding random letters and such to the url, but it might be disclosed in a script.

**Lab** : Inspecting the home page led me to find a script that showed the url to admin panel.

We can also change parameters in cookies to allow us access.

**Lab** : There's already admin panel present at /admin. Using Burp, login and access the admin page. Alter the request so Admin parameter is 'true'. 

Horizontal Privilege escalation - When a user can access the functions of another user on the same level. (This is an example of an insecure direct object reference (IDOR) vulnerability.)

**Lab** : After signing into a user of known credentials, I found a blog post belonging to target user. Through it, I found their GUID, which I used to access their account. 

Horizontal to vertical privilege escalation

**Lab** : Login to a user, switch to admin, find admin password in a pre-filled mask- using inspect- copy and login to admin, access admin panel.

<a href="/posts/portswigger/1" style="display: inline-block; float: left;">
    <button class="btn">Path Traversal</button>
</a>
<a href="/posts/portswigger/3" style="display: inline-block; float: right;">
    <button class="btn">Authentication</button>
</a>