---
title: 'Authentication'
author: Abdullah Ahmed H
date: '24-11-2024'
image:
    url: '/portswigger_logo.webp'
    alt: 'Portswigger'
---

Authentication vulnerabilities are attack surfaces that allow attackers to pose as someone else, which lets them gain access to sensitive data and functionality. Man in the middle is an example of this. 

Authentication is the process of verifying that a user is who they claim to be. Authorization involves verifying whether a user is allowed to do something. 

Brute-force attacks involve "guessing" user credentials in a way that explores every single possibility. For example, if a pin code is 4 characters long, brute forcing it would involve trying each possible combination- 0000 to 9999, which is 10,000 combinations. 
Wordlists which can make educated guesses at passwords and other credentials also exist, which make brute-forcing easier.

Username enumeration refers to the error messages that occur to verify whether a username or a password exist. If the messages for when a password is different from that of the username, it helps us identify valid usernames as well.

**Lab** : Using provided wordlists for username and password, I used Burpsuite intruder to find usernames that were valid. I used the length of the response to figure out which response was different from the others for the username. 
I got "adam" as a valid username. Similarly, for the password, I observed the length and status code which was different and investigated them. I got "iloveyou" as the password.

Two-factor authentication flaw - In some cases, if the user is prompted to enter a password, and then a code on another page, then the user is effectively in a logged in state- It is worth testing if you can directly skip to logged in pages in this case. 

**Lab** : I logged in using victim's credentials, used the button to go back to home page without entering the verification code, and tried accessing account page.

<a href="/posts/portswigger/2" style="display: inline-block; float: left;">
    <button class="btn">Access Control</button>
</a>
<a href="/posts/portswigger/4" style="display: inline-block; float: right;">
    <button class="btn">Server-side request forgery</button>
</a>